---
title: Friday's Travelogue Entry 3
published: true
video_id: 95757504
---

Berlin is no pulsing global metropolis like New York or London. Neither does it have the architectural charms of Rome or Paris. 

Anyway, the city numbers among the most popular tourist destinations in the world. It is considered a global mecca for creatives and artists, despite the fact that it doesn’t even have a proper international airport. It is the capital of the most powerful national economy in Europe, and yet practically the poorest major city in Germany.

I arrived in this strange town from the South on the _Autobahn_ and made my own strange experiences: signs indicate you must choose whether to drive to “Center West” or “Center East.” But after having strolled around from West to East, from Kurfuerstendamm to Stadtmitte, I couldn’t really find what in other cities is called a “downtown.” There is a lot of history, but almost no central space to celebrate national pride. For good reasons. If you think of all the terror that had been unleashed here. 

It is less Prussian, even less German, than you would expect. Instead, Berlin is sexy to the global citizens of the ages of 18 to 30. Probably, because the city embodies their values: rejection of consumption, skepticism toward traditional authorities, solidarity and tolerance—to name a few. It seems, Berlin has become a network, with visitors and residents, the past and the present, all actors on equal footing. 

Still, it is also the capital. With politics, lobbyism and diplomacy. With high culture and critical thought. I am invited by the Alfred Herrhausen Society, the international forum of Deutsche Bank. They host a conference with the title: Europe – dream and reality. Ministers, thinkers and writers will speak. Watch out on the debate page what some of them have to suggest about this continent.
