---
title: Friday's Travelogue Day 2
slug: friday-2
category: intro
video_id: 95284125
published: true
---
I made it into Strasbourg’s Parliament building. No objection from the security to let in a guy from Lavapolis. A lot of people accompanied me. Actually, they were more than five thousand. Between 18 and 30 years old and from all member states. This was a special occasion. These people were invited by the parliament to join the European Youth Event. To learn about the work of the lawmakers here and about the future of European politics. This future looks a bit gloomy. Upfront the election in two weeks it seems that many Europeans are fed up with the work of the elected politicians. There is a battle going on. The battle of Strasbourg is a battle for or against a Europe with a common policy, a common common market and open borders. Hard to believe what is at stake. Hard to believe the continent would fall back into nationalism. But nothing is impossible. See what leaders have to say…

None of those leaders where in Strasbourg when I was there. None of them represents the generation I met there. The generation to come. I wonder how much the considerations of people in the age between 18 and 30 matter in the battle of Strasbourg. And if they manage to make themselves heard and engaged in what is first and foremost their own future and their own continent. 

> We are calling for YES and people vote for NO. There was a time when pro-Eu movement had a soul. Today anti-Europe has got a soul. _Martin Schulz_

> We want our money back, we want our borders back, we want our country back. _Nigel Farage_

> I am astonished at those who are afraid of the people: one can always explain that what is in the interest of Europe is in the interests of our countries.” _Jean Claude Juncker_ 

> Do anything I can do to stop European integration and retrieve as much power as possible from the E.U. to give this power back to the nations.” _Marine Le Pen_ 

> Or we become the UN of Europe or we become the US of Europe. Either we become a loose federation with the national states in the driver’s seat or we become really this political and economic union what we absolutely need to create wealth for our citizens and to create peace and stability.” _Guy Verhofstadt_ 

> Leaving the EU (…) will not only restore our national sovereignty but it will also boost the Dutch economy now and in the future.” _Geert Wilders_ 




