---
title: Friday's Travelogue Entry 6
slug: friday-6
category: intro
video_id: 97104559
published: true
---
I’m still in Berlin. I like it! I know that’s not very unusual. But I do have an unusual reason for liking it—the city reminds me of the Internet. Sound weird? Ok, let me try to explain. We know that Berlin is appealing to many twenty to thirty year olds because it embodies their way of life: rejection of consumption, skepticism toward traditional authorities, solidarity and tolerance—this is what matters to them. Berlin is egalitarian, easily accessible, and a city of many stories about war and peace, intrigue and celebration. This is why Berlin reminds me of the Internet. Like Berlin, the Internet is egalitarian, easily accessible, and filled with a seemingly infinite amount of stories. On the Internet, users exist as part of a larger network and in a state of networking; there, they face a new threat of anonymous surveillance, and… There is strong resentment toward surveillance here in Berlin. Maybe it's not surprising that the cit, with its recent history of no man’s land, death strips, and oppression, has chosen today to champion the principles of political transparency and social equality. The more Berlin adopts the values of tolerance and freedom, the further it distances itself from its dark history. For a long time, the city was a byword for totalitarian repression and isolation. Its new values are universal. It seems to me that the more strongly Berlin practices values that are global and contemporary, the less it resembles the city it once was. Berliners should thank the city’s ability change. There is nothing more positive to say about a city than that it is able to reinvent itself.

