---
title: 'Debate 10: How do we avoid the massive devastation of European heritage?'
slug: conclusion-european-heritage
category: conclusions
published: true
posted: 2014-07-22
---

5 official proposals, 6 community proposals

While planning my trip to Venice, I learned about an association called Poveglia Per Tutti. This grassroots organisation is lobbying the Venetian government against the privatization of an abandoned island in the Laguna; instead, they want the island to be returned to the residents of Venice and redeveloped—maybe reoccupied. Poveglia Per Tutti has more than 4,000 members (mostly from the Veneto region). They care about the future of this island because it has become a symbol for Venice’s problematic status as one of the most visited cities in the world. While the number of tourists in Venice increases every year, the city’s population is shrinking. At the same time, the municipal government is forced to consider all possible opportunities to compensate for a tremendous deficit. A new law allows administrative entities in Italy to lease or even sell natural as well as cultural heritage sites as long as those transactions translate into financial relief programs. This is exactly what is at stake in the case of Poveglia and many other sites in Italy today. 

![alt text]	(https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/lavapolis.bucket/lavapolis_media/Friday_DB10.png)

But shrinking public sectors and the privatization of heritage sites is also occurring elsewhere. Furthermore, there are more threats to the preservation of our monuments: tourism, pollution, real estate interests, and sometimes even preservation programs themselves!

This is why I asked the question:

**Will European heritage still exist in the future?**

This was the most popular debate so far, with nearly seventy contributions by users! Although the debate was controversial, some proposals and comments also complemented each other.
Interestingly, the discussion did not focus only on buildings and natural reserves but also highlighted grave concerns about our cultural customs, languages, and knowledge. User _blabla_, with his comment on intangible heritage, became the winner of the debate:

**Intangible**

_blabla_     nominated 14 days ago

The real devastation is actually not caused on physical sites. Globalization is an even greater threat to intangible heritage. Customs and lore vanish. Half of the languages on the planet are endangered; every two weeks, one of them dies. Before taking out billions in cash to secure monuments we should ensure the future of our cultures.

![alt text]	(https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/lavapolis.bucket/lavapolis_media/DB_10_1.png)

The statement was certainly not _blabla_, and it found a lot of support from the community; it received six votes and became an official proposal.

User _sysy_ questioned the notion of heritage and preservation as such, closing by stating that history should not be exploited for the interests of future development; it should stand in its own right. 

**Past future**

_sysy_     nominated 13 days ago

We are so obsessed with the future that heritage has to be legitimized as a purpose to control the future. History is not a value as such. The people who died during WWI did not die as such but died as a lesson for us about how to avoid WWIII. The Acropolis was built to make us aware about the Greek polis. The past deserves to be liberated from this stupid obsession with the future!

![alt text]	(https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/lavapolis.bucket/lavapolis_media/DB10_2.png)

_Sysy’s_ proposal came second after _blabla’s_ proposal.

Hinting at the UNESCO World Heritage program and similar efforts to protect monuments, user _toltchok_ points out, in his proposal, the strong competition for recognition among different public entities worldwide. Tourism is, according to toltchok’s argument, the driving force behind this competition. Some responses to his proposal supported the concept of tourism as a form of cultural education. However, a critical perspective prevailed in the community. _Toltchok_ was rewarded with third place and his proposal was officially nominated as well.

**Heritage? Tourism!**

_toltchok_     nominated a day ago

There is a lot of competition between countries, regions, cities and institutions about heritage recognition. Why? It attracts tourists and makes money. The whole distinction between public and private is pathetic. Governments behave no differently from travel agencies when it comes to monument marketing. They claim to apply for protection and preservation and once they get recognition (for example from the UNESCO World Heritage program) they do everything possible to get people to the site, cash in, and endanger the monument even further!

![alt text]	(https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/lavapolis.bucket/lavapolis_media/DB10_3.png)


**Check out the archive to read the debate in full.**

**Congratulation to _blabla_, _sysy_, and _toltchok_!Their proposals in the following debate will bypass the nomination process and will instead immediately be considered as official proposals.**

**Don’t forget: repeat winners can earn the privilege of proposing a subject for debate to me!
I wish all participants even more success in the next rounds.**




